# Chrome Extension Boilerplate

This boilerplate provides a solid starting point for developing Chrome extensions with modern web technologies and tools. It integrates a variety of features to make development smoother and more efficient.

## Features

- **Messaging RPC**: Facilitates communication between different parts of the extension.
- **Popup/Content API**: Enables interaction between the popup and content scripts.
- **React 18**: Utilizes the latest React for building user interfaces.
- **Webpack 5**: Bundles assets, scripts, and styles for deployment.
- **Babel 7**: Transpiles ES6+ JavaScript to ensure compatibility across browsers.
- **Hot Reloading**: Speeds up development by allowing live content updates without reloading the entire extension.
- **ESLint**: Maintains code quality with comprehensive linting rules.
- **Prettier**: Automatically formats code to ensure consistency and readability.

## Getting Started

To get started with this boilerplate, clone the repository to your local machine and install the dependencies.

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have Node.js installed on your system. You can download it from [Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/).

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mawdev1/chrome-extension-boilerplate.git
cd chrome-extension-boilerplate
```

2. **Install the dependencies**

```bash
npm install
```

```bash
yarn
```

### Development

To start developing your Chrome extension with hot reloading, use:

```bash
yarn dev
```

### Building

For a production build of your extension, use:

```bash
yarn build
```

### Loading the Extension into Chrome

After building your extension, you can load it into Chrome to test it:

1. Open Chrome and navigate to chrome://extensions/.
2. Enable "Developer mode" at the top right.
3. Click "Load unpacked" and select the dist folder generated by the build process.

Your extension is now loaded and ready for use.

### Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a pull request or create an issue for any bugs or feature requests.

#### Submitting a Pull Request

1. Once your changes are pushed, navigate to the original repository you forked on GitHub.
2. You'll see a prompt to submit a pull request from your branch. Click the "Compare & pull request" button to begin the process.
3. In your pull request, provide a detailed description of the changes and why they are needed. Include any relevant issue numbers.
4. After submitting, maintainers of the original repository will review your changes. If there are any comments or requests for changes, please address them.

#### Review Process

- Once your pull request is submitted, it will be reviewed by the maintainers. This process helps ensure that the quality of the project is maintained and that everyone's contributions can be integrated smoothly.
- If your pull request is approved, a maintainer will merge it into the main branch. Congratulations, and thank you for your contribution!
- If changes are requested, please address them promptly. It's normal for a few iterations of review and updates before your contribution is accepted.

Your contributions are greatly appreciated, and they help make this project better for everyone. Thank you for taking the time to contribute!

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
